.\" Copyright (c) 2004-2006, Mark Aylett <mark@emantic.co.uk>
.\" See the file COPYING for copying permission.
.\"
.TH MAR 1 "December 2004" "mar 0.5" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
mar \- utility for manipulating mar files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mar
option... archive
.SH DESCRIPTION

The \fBmar\fR utility uses the \fBmar\fR library to provide a convenient tool
for manipulating \fBmar\fR files from the command line.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-c\fR

Compact the message archive.

.TP
\fB\-f\fR

Do not prompt for confirmation when using one of the following delete-like
operations; \fB-r\fR, \fB-u\fR or \fB-z\fR.

.TP
\fB\-g\fR \fIname\fR

Given the \fIname\fR of a field, print the field's value to stdout.

.TP
\fB\-h\fR

Display a brief help summary and then exit.

.TP
\fB\-i\fR \fIfilename\fR

Insert the contents of the file specified by \fIfilename\fR, into the
archive's body-content section.  If the \fIfilename\fR specified is "-" then
stdin will be used as the input stream.

.TP
\fB\-l\fR

List the name of each field contained within the archive to stdout: each of
the resulting names will be followed by a newline.

.TP
\fB\-n\fR

Print the total length (in bytes) of the archive's body-content to stdout.

.TP
\fB\-r\fR

Remove (delete) all fields, including the names, from the archive.  Use the
\fB-f\fR option to suppress the confirmation prompt.

.TP
\fB\-s\fR \fIsource\fR

Fields are set by specifying one of more name/value pairs.  Each name/value
pair should be specified in the format "name=value", where the name and value
part of the pair are delimited using the "=" character.  Any whitespace
characters occurring either side of the delimiter are significant, and will
not therefore be stripped when the pair is split.  The \fIsource\fR can
either be a single name/value pair specified on the command line, or a
filename.  If a filename is specified then name/value pairs will be read (one
pair per line) from the file specified by filename.  If the filename
specified is "-" then stdin will be used as the input stream.

.TP
\fB\-t\fR

List each field contained within the archive to stdout.  Each field is
displayed as a name/value pair in the format "name=value", where the name and
value part of the pair are delimited using the "=" character.  Each
name/value pair will be followed by a newline.

.TP
\fB\-u\fR \fIname\fR

Unset (delete) the field specified by \fIname\fR from the archive.  Use the
\fB-f\fR option to suppress the confirmation prompt.

.TP
\fB\-x\fR \fIfilename\fR

Extract (a copy of) the archive's body-content into the file specified by
\fIfilename\fR.  If the \fIfilename\fR specified is "-" then stdout will be
used as the output stream.

.TP
\fB\-z\fR

Zero truncate (delete) the archive's body-content.  Use the \fB-f\fR option
to suppress the confirmation prompt.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP

Insert the contents of "input.txt" into the archive's body-content section,
and then print the number of bytes stored to stdout:

.ft B
.nf

    mar -i input.txt -l archive.mar
.fi
.ft R
.PP

Extract (a copy of) the the archive's body-content, and then zero truncate
the body-content without prompting for confirmation:

.ft B
.nf

    mar -x - -f -z archive.mar
.fi
.ft R
.PP

Set two fields (with names "familyname" and "givenname") and then list all
fields to stdout:

.ft B
.nf

    mar -s familyname=Aylett -s givenname=Mark -t archive.mar
.fi
.ft R
.PP

Unset the field (with name "familyname") without prompting for confirmation,
and then list all remaining field names within the archive to stdout:

.ft B
.nf

    mar -f -u familyname -n archive.mar
.fi
.ft R
.PP

Print the field value (for the field with name "givenname") to stdout, and
then remove (delete) all fields without prompting for confirmation:

.ft B
.nf

    mar -g givenname -f -r archive.mar
.fi
.ft R
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Mark Aylett.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to <mark@emantic.co.uk>.
